No problem—let’s skip the code and stick to the Google Cloud Console interface. This is often easier because you can pick metrics from a dropdown menu.

Since we deployed Jenkins as a StatefulSet, we will look for "Ready Replicas."

Step 1: Navigate to Alerting
Log into your Google Cloud Console.

In the search bar at the top, type "Monitoring" and select it.

In the left-hand sidebar, click on Alerting.

Click the + CREATE POLICY button at the top.

Step 2: Select the Metric
Click on Select a metric.

Uncheck "Active" to see all metrics if necessary.

In the search box, type StatefulSet and navigate to:

Kubernetes Scale > StatefulSet > Ready replicas (kubernetes.io/statefulset/ready_replicas)

Click Apply.

Filter the data: Click + Add Filter.

Label: resource.labels.name

Value: jenkins (This ensures you only monitor Jenkins, not every app in your cluster).

Step 3: Configure the Trigger
Rolling Window: Set this to 1 minute. (This is how long the system waits to confirm the pods are actually gone).

Condition Type: Threshold.

Threshold Position: Below threshold.

Threshold Value: 1.

This means if "Ready Replicas" is less than 1 (i.e., 0), the alarm will trigger.

Step 4: Set Notifications
Click Next to go to "Configure notifications."

Click the dropdown under Notification Channels.

If you haven't set one up, click Manage Notification Channels to add your email address, then come back and select it.

Incident Auto-close: Leave this at the default (usually 7 days).

Step 5: Name and Finish
Give the policy a clear name like Jenkins Instance Down.

Add a brief "Documentation" note if you like, such as: "The Jenkins pod has stopped running. Check GKE workloads immediately."

Click Create Policy.

How to test it manually
To make sure your phone or email actually buzzes when things break:

Open your terminal and run:

Bash
kubectl scale statefulset jenkins --replicas=0
Wait about 2 minutes.

Check the Alerting dashboard in GCP; you should see a red "Incident" open.

Once you've verified it, bring Jenkins back online:

Bash
kubectl scale statefulset jenkins --replicas=1
